Data Science is an interdisciplinary field that aims to extract knowledge products from big data
Data Warehouses maintain and provide access to data
  Data is stored in multiple relational tables

Knowledge discovery process
  1. Understand the problem domain
  2. Understand the data
  3. Prepare the data
  4. Data Mining
  5. Evaluate the discovered knowledge
  6. Use the discovered knowledge

    1. Understand the problem domain
  to understand we need to...
      Define the problem
      Determine project goals
      Determine Success Criteria
      Identify key people
      Learn about current solutions to the problem
  Initial selection of potential data mining tools is performed in this step

    2. Understand the data
      Understanding includes the collection of sample data and determining which data will be needed including their format and size
      Verification of data as well as usefulness is performed
      Check data for missing values, redundancy, completeness, etc.

    3. Preparation of the data
      Select the sample of data
      Run correlation and significance tests
      Clean the data as well as check completeness of data records
      Remove or correct noise
      can use Discretization which is derivation of new attributes
      doing all of these will result in new data records.
      this is the most important step in this process
      Also which takes the longest

    4. Data Mining
      This step is where we use the data mining tools and sometimes selection of new tools
      Data mining tools use algorithms such as decision trees, SVM and clustering
      Descriptive data mining provides a concise description of the data to reveal properties of the data
      Predictive data mining constructs models while learning from the training data, which then makes a prediction of the test data
        First the training datasets are designed and the data model is constructed using the chosen Data mining tools
        next the data model is verified by using appropriate test procedures
        this step usually takes less time than data preparation if the data had been prepared correctly

    5. Evaluation of discovered knowledge
      This includes, understanding the results, checking whether the info is interesting and/or useful
      only the best models are selected from the results of the data mining
      The entire knowledge discovery process may be revisited to identify if there are alternative actions that could have improved the results

    6. Using the discovered knowledge
      Consists of planning where and how the discovered knowledge will be used
      Involves deployment of the product as well as developing a business plan
      Creation of a plan to monitor the implementation of the discovered knowledge
      Documentation of the entire project

Iterative and Interactive
    This is not a linear process, Many iteration may be needed to properly produce the success requirements
    Feedback loops are necessary and steps may be repeated multiple times

    about 20% of the time is spent on business objectives
    about 60% on data preparation, Data is redundant, there might be significant errors, and necessary data might not be collected
    about 20% for data mining and analysis of knowledge

The challenges of knowledge discovery
Might have data from various data sources
Have a large variety of distinct Data mining tasks
Have a large quantity of data

The knowledge discovery process heavily depends on the quality and quantity of the data
  We focus on 3 issues
    Data Types, data storage, and amount/quality of the data
    Data can have diverse formats and can be stored using a variety of different storage modes




Information Retrieval
  Find relevant documents in response to a user's query
  Matches the language in the query and the language of documents
  Most problems in computer science provide 1 right answer but Information retrieval provide multiple good answers
  Most of the time the information is being retrieved from a database so Information retrieval systems must be efficient
  Information retrieval systems require a high-quality and fast to compute measure of relevance
    this means that information must be relevant to what the user needs
  Information retrieval systems use fast to compute heuristics to find relevant information
    thus many solutions will return sorted answers

Searching the database
    
